Document a propshaft approach to JS/CSS (#2160)
ViewComponent/view_component: docs/guide/javascript_and_css.md

While ViewComponent doesn't provide any built-in tooling to do so, it’s possible to include JavaScript and CSS alongside components.

## Propshaft / Stimulus

> To use a [transpiler-less and bundler-less approach to JavaScript](https://world.hey.com/dhh/modern-web-apps-without-javascript-bundling-or-transpiling-a20f2755) (the default for Rails 8), Stimulus and CSS can be used inside ViewComponents one of two ways:

Reviewer: Can we link to the Rails guides or something a little more durable here instead of a blog post?

Author: Perhaps [this link](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/working_with_javascript_in_rails.html#choosing-between-import-maps-and-a-javascript-bundler) would be better?

Reviewer: Yes, that looks good 👍

> ### Upgrading a pre-Rails 8 app

Reviewer: Let's remove this section since upgrading your app is outside ViewComponent's scope.

Author: You're right. I wish there had been a more straightforward guide for this elsewhere but makes sense, doesn't belong here =]

```ruby
# Gemfile (then run `bundle install`)
gem "importmap-rails" # JavaScript version/digests without transpiling/bundling
gem "propshaft" # Load static assets like JavaScript/CSS/images without transpilation/webpacker
gem "stimulus-rails" # Hotwire JavaScript approach
```

```js
// app/javascript/controllers/application.js
import { Application } from "@hotwired/stimulus"

const application = Application.start()

application.debug = false
window.Stimulus   = application

export { application }
```

```js
// app/javascript/controllers/index.js
import { application } from "controllers/application"
```

```ruby
# config/importmap.rb
pin "@hotwired/turbo-rails", to: "turbo.min.js"
pin "application", preload: true
pin "@hotwired/stimulus", to: "stimulus.min.js"
pin "@hotwired/stimulus-loading", to: "stimulus-loading.js"
```

> ### Approach 1 - Default _app/components_ ViewComponent directory using named Stimulus controllers, no autoloading

Reviewer: I'd really like to only have one section. Since app/components is the conventional place to put components, let's keep this section and remove the other one. It looks like propshaft now supports putting stimulus controllers in app/components anyway, so I don't know if there's much use in documenting another approach.

Author: I'd also be super keen on showing a single approach. However, importing each stimulus controller with a named key:
```
import HelloWorldComponentController from "examples/hello_world_component/hello_world_component_controller"
application.register("examples--hello-world-component", HelloWorldComponentController)
```

is quite painful compared to autoloading them with:
```ruby
`pin_all_from "app/frontend/components", under: "controllers", to: "components"`
```

and as far as I'm aware, the issue [described here](https://github.com/ViewComponent/view_component/issues/1064#issuecomment-1163314487) hasn't been resolved in order to allow autoloading of stimulus controllers without the 'frontend' style subdirectory. I just tried all these steps again on a new Rails 8.0.1 project but the problem described in that issue remains.

Seems like there's some patching to be done in a library somewhere. For the time being, I thought it would be useful to show both approaches and then remove one of them when this is fixed.

Reviewer: Hmm ok, any idea why https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails/pull/192 didn't fix the problem?

Reviewer: In any case, it sounds like this needs to be fixed upstream for the ideal experience. My concern is that the two approaches are confusing (not your fault) - we should just pick one and recommend it without expecting devs to make a choice. Such is the Rails Way™.

Author: I'm not sure why that didn't fix the problem. I've tried various approaches, maybe I'm missing something but it seems everyone is feeling the same pain per [the issue](https://github.com/ViewComponent/view_component/issues/1064) this is addressing.

I'm not sure which approach would be best to demonstrate at the moment, they're both suboptimal. I see a lot of examples of folks using the `frontend` subdirectory workaround however I really don't like that. I've gone with **Approach 1** for now for my own project however I really don't like that either and would prefer to be able to use **Approach 2** without the subdirectory 😂.

Author: Hey @camertron, I note the thumbs up however I'm not sure how to interpret that. Are you suggesting you're happy to stick with both examples for the time being until the issue is resolved or are you suggesting you would prefer just one approach to be documented and if so, which one?

Locate CSS and Stimulus js with a ViewComponent. This example demonstrates a _HelloWorldComponent_ in an _examples_ namespace with a sidecar file naming approach:

```console
app/components
├── ...
├── examples
|   ├── hello_world_component
|   |   ├── hello_world_component_controller.js
|   |   ├── hello_world_component.css
|   |   └── hello_world_component.html.erb
|   └── hello_world_component.rb
├── ...
```

#### 1. Prepare _app/components_ as an asset path for css and ensure hot reloads of Stimulus JavaScript

```ruby
# config/application.rb

> config.assets.paths << "app/components"

Reviewer 2: one small issue I has with this config in the past is it digests everything in this path even your erb files, one way to solve this is to get all the files in components and remove any mot asset files

Author: I'd be interested in a better approach. I'm not sure how to avoid this?

Reviewer: Could we do something like this?

```ruby
config.assets.paths += Dir.glob("app/components/**/*.js")
```

Reviewer: > I'd love to avoid autoloading all assets in that app/components directory but when I have tried various approaches like the one you have suggested, I've been unable to make that work.

What problems did you run into?

Author: `config.assets.paths` for the purpose of loading javascript with importmap-rails [expects this to contain an array of directories](https://github.com/rails/importmap-rails/blob/f588506eebc7b276f8b3539301633f93d2bda55d/lib/importmap/map.rb#L129-L141), not files.

Theoretically, you could probably create a directory structure for your view components like:
```console
app/components
├── ...
├── examples
|   ├── hello_world_component
|   |   ├── hello_world_component_javascript
|   |    |        ├── hello_world_component_controller.js
|   |   ├── hello_world_component.css
|   |   └── hello_world_component.html.erb
|   └── hello_world_component.rb
├── ...
```

and then do something like:
`config.assets.paths += Dir["app/components/**/"].select { |d| d.include?('javascript') }`

but that doesn't seem particularly nice.

Author: Hey @camertron, I note the thumbs up here but I'm not sure how to interpret that in order to update the pull request. Are you suggesting we look to try and demonstrate a more complicated folder structure or are you suggesting you're now comfortable with the perhaps unavoidable usage of:
`config.assets.paths << "app/components"`

    This div will be updated by the controller
  </p>

  <button data-action="click->examples--hello-world-component#greet">Toggle Greeting</button>
</div>
```

```css
/* app/components/examples/hello_world_component/hello_world_component.css */
.hello-world {
  color: blue;
}
```

```js
// app/components/examples/hello_world_component/hello_world_component_controller.js
import { Controller } from "@hotwired/stimulus";

export default class extends Controller {
  static targets = ["output"]

  initialize() {
    console.log("Component initialized!");
  }

  connect() {
    console.log("Component connected!");

    this.outputTarget.textContent = "This div has been initialised by stimulus and will be updated when you click the button"
  }

  greet() {
    const currentText = this.outputTarget.textContent;
    this.outputTarget.textContent = currentText === "Hello from Stimulus!"
      ? "Goodbye from Stimulus!"
      : "Hello from Stimulus!";
  }
}
```

#### 5. Render the component in a rails view (or a [ViewComponent preview](previews.md)) to see the end result:

```erb
<!-- app/views/layouts/application.html.erb -->
<body>
  ...

>     <%= render(Examples::HelloWorldComponent.new(title: "Hello World!")) {
>       "<em>This</em> will demonstrate the use of <b>Stimulus</b> and <b>CSS</b> in a ViewComponent".html_safe
>       }
>     %>

Reviewer: No need to use `.html_safe` 😄 

```suggestion
    <%= render(Examples::HelloWorldComponent.new(title: "Hello World!")) do %>
      <em>This</em> will demonstrate the use of <b>Stimulus</b> and <b>CSS</b> in a ViewComponent
    <% end %>
```

Author: Without `.html_safe`, it renders like this:
<img width="572" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-20 at 7 42 50 am" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/50595d8d-6f9d-49f2-b9e6-b4214b9508cf" />

Author: ❤️ it!
